1
SECTION
INTRODUCTION
January 2024, Version 1.1
SECTION
1
INTRODUCTION
January 2024, Version 1.1
SECTION
1
INTRODUCTION
January 2024, Version 1.1
FOREWORD SSEECCTTIIOONN OONNEE SECTION two SECTION three SECTION four SECTION five SECTION six JANUARY 2024 - VERSION 1.1
SECTION 1
INTRODUCTION 11
DOCUMENT OVERVIEW 12
ASSESSMENT PROCESS 13
Section 1: Introduction - Core Carbon Principles - January 2024, Version 1.1 | 10
FOREWORD SSEECCTTIIOONN OONNEE SECTION two SECTION three SECTION four SECTION five SECTION six JANUARY 2024 - VERSION 1.1
Introduction
The Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon Market (Integrity Council or ICVCM) is an
independent governance body for the voluntary carbon market (VCM). Its purpose is to ensure
that the VCM accelerates progress toward the objective of combatting climate change.
To achieve this, the Integrity Council has established a global threshold standard for carbon credit
quality, drawing on the best science and expertise available, with a view to ensuring that high-
quality carbon credits efficiently mobilise finance towards urgent climate action.
The Core Carbon Principle (CCP) label will provide a credible, rigorous, and readily accessible
means of identifying high-quality carbon credits. The Integrity Council’s work on the high-
integrity supply of carbon credits complements that of the Voluntary Carbon Markets Integrity
Initiative (VCMI) which, in June 2023, published its Claims Code of Practice. The VCMI Claims Code
addresses integrity on the demand side by informing companies and other non-state actors on
the voluntary use of carbon credits as part of their climate commitments and on the associated
claims they can make regarding the use of those credits. It provides clarity, transparency and
consistency on what these commitments and claims mean and will help build confidence in VCM.
The threshold standard set by the Integrity Council’s CCPs will be implemented through the
Assessment Framework and the Assessment Procedure. This publication forms the complete
process and operational requirements that the Integrity Council will follow to assess carbon-
crediting programs and Categories of carbon credits. It replaces the components published in
March 2023.
Section 1: Introduction - Core Carbon Principles - January 2024, Version 1.1 | 11
FOREWORD SSEECCTTIIOONN OONNEE SECTION two SECTION three SECTION four SECTION five SECTION six JANUARY 2024 - VERSION 1.1
Document
Overview
Section Two of this document sets out the CCPs. These are the ten principles that need to be
considered to identify whether carbon credits create real, additional and verifiable climate impact
with high environmental and social integrity, based on the latest science and evolving best
practice.
Section Three is the Summary for Decision Makers. This summary provides the context and
supporting rationale for the Assessment Framework, explaining how the CCPs are met through the
application of criteria and requirements in the Assessment Framework.
Section Four is the Assessment Framework. The CCPs are operationalised through the
Assessment Framework, which details the criteria and requirements to be met for the CCPs at the
Program-level and Category-level.
Section Five contains Definitions applicable to the Core Carbon Principles, the Assessment
Framework and the Assessment Procedure.
Section Six is the Assessment Procedure, the process through which carbon-crediting programs
apply to become CCP-Eligible and carbon credits may become CCP-Approved.
Section 1: Introduction - Core Carbon Principles - January 2024, Version 1.1 | 12
FOREWORD SSEECCTTIIOONN OONNEE SECTION two SECTION three SECTION four SECTION five SECTION six JANUARY 2024 - VERSION 1.1
Assessment
Process
With the publication of this document, carbon-crediting programs can now apply to
the Integrity Council for assessment against the CCPs. Applications will be assessed in
accordance with the process set out in the Assessment Procedure, with the accompanying
Terms and Conditions specifying how the relationship between the ICVCM and eligible
carbon-crediting programs will be managed.
All Categories of carbon credits (Categories) will be provisionally grouped for assessment,
where some will undergo an internal assessment process for approval, while other Categories
will undergo assessment by a multi-stakeholder working group. The multi-stakeholder working
groups will be organised by sectoral expertise and Categories will be prioritised for assessment
depending on their current and trending market share. The multi-stakeholder working groups will
provide advice to the Integrity Council on Category assessments. Following the multistakeholder
assessment, the Category may be approved, not approved, or awarded conditional approval,
stipulating matters that an eligible carbon-crediting program needs to remediate for the Category
to be approved.
The Integrity Council will engage in a process of continual improvement of the CCPs and their
related criteria and requirements in the Assessment Framework to drive greater ambition in
the VCM. It expects to publish the next iteration of the CCPs in 2025, aimed at implementation
starting in 2026. This will be informed by a series of thematic multi-stakeholder work programs
as set out in Section C of the Summary for Decision Makers.
The Integrity Council continues to encourage feedback from the public and all stakeholders,
which can be submitted to info@icvcm.org with the word “feedback” included in the subject
line of the email. All feedback will be considered, and the Integrity Council may update these
documents or adopt further guidance or procedures from time to time.
Section 1: Introduction - Core Carbon Principles - January 2024, Version 1.1 | 13