5
SECTION
DEFINITIONS
January 2024, Version 1.1
5
SECTION
DEFINITIONS
January 2024, Version 1.1
5
SECTION
DEFINITIONS
January 2024, Version 1.1
FOREWORD SECTION ONE SECTION two SECTION three SECTION four SSEECCTTIIOONN ffiIvVeE SECTION six JANUARY 2024 - VERSION 1.1
DEFINITIONS
The following definitions are applicable to the Core Carbon Principles, the Summary for Decision
Makers, the Assessment Framework and the Assessment Procedure and may be revised or
updated from time to time.
APPLICATION
A detailed Application containing appropriate supporting information, documentation and
evidence by the applicant carbon-crediting program submitted through the Assessment Platform.
ASSESSMENT PLATFORM
The secure online Application and Assessment Platform for Program-level requirements as
referred to in the Assessment Procedure.
ASSESSMENT REPORT
The document prepared by the Integrity Council on the basis of the Application from the carbon-
crediting program containing, at a minimum, summary information about the applicant carbon-
crediting program, and an assessment of whether the carbon-crediting program satisfies the
requirements set out in the CCPs and the Assessment Framework, including agreed remedial
actions, if any.
BASELINE SCENARIO
A description of the situation and the outcome that is predicted or assumed to occur in the
absence of the incentives created by the carbon credits and their associated mitigation activities,
while holding all other factors constant.
CANCELLATION
The permanent removal of a carbon credit in an electronic registry without claiming the
associated emission reductions or removals towards any voluntary or mandatory targets or
other purposes. Cancellation may include the following purposes: compensating for reversals;
compensation for any previous excess issuance; administrative cancellation for the purpose of
re-issuing carbon credits for the same emission reductions or removals under a different carbon-
crediting program. Only one single use should be associated with each cancellation and the use
should be clearly specified.
Section 5: Definitions - Core Carbon Principles - January 2024, Version 1.1 | 104
SSEECCTTIIOONN ffiIvVeE
FOREWORD SECTION ONE SECTION two SECTION three SECTION four SSEECCTTIIOONN ffiIvVeE SECTION six JANUARY 2024 - VERSION 1.1
CARBON CREDIT
A tradeable intangible instrument that is issued by a carbon-crediting program, representing a
GHG emission reduction to, or removal from, the atmosphere equivalent to one metric tonne of
carbon dioxide equivalent. This is calculated as the difference in GHG emissions or removals from
a baseline scenario to the emissions or removals occurring under the mitigation activity, and any
adjustments for leakage. The carbon credit is uniquely serialised, issued, tracked and retired or
administratively cancelled by means of an electronic registry operated by an administrative body,
such as a carbon-crediting program.
CARBON-CREDITING PROGRAM
A standard-setting program that registers mitigation activities and issues carbon credits.
CATEGORY (OF CARBON CREDITS)
A group of carbon credits that have the following characteristics in common: (1) the carbon credits
are from the same type of mitigation activity as defined by the Integrity Council; (2) the mitigation
activity is registered under the same carbon-crediting program and complementary standard as
applicable; (3) the emission reductions or removals were quantified using the same version of the
same quantification methodology, including any tools or modules referred to in the quantification
methodology; and (4) the carbon credits have other common features as defined by the Integrity
Council in its assessment of Categories of carbon credits, as necessary, such as the geographical
location or technical features.
CATEGORY ASSESSMENT
An assessment by the Integrity Council of which Categories meet the relevant CCPs using the
criteria and requirements applicable to the Category-level in the Assessment Framework.
CCP-APPROVED
Categories of carbon credits deemed approved pursuant to the Category-level assessment. Such
credits may be tagged by CCP-Eligible programs.
CCP ATTRIBUTE
A CCP Attribute refers to a characteristic associated with a carbon credit, such as quantified
positive SDG impacts.
CCP-ELIGIBLE PROGRAM
A carbon-crediting program that has satisfied the relevant CCPs and the Program-level criteria
and requirements in Part I of the Assessment Framework and in respect of which a Decision
approving the carbon-crediting program has been taken by the Governing Board.
CORSIA
The Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation, a global GHG emissions
reduction program developed by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) to address
the CO2 emissions of international air travel.
CORSIA-ELIGIBLE PROGRAM
A carbon-crediting program that has been approved by the ICAO Council to supply CORSIA Eligible
Emissions Units as listed on the CORSIA website.
CREDITING PERIOD
The period in which verified GHG emission reductions or removals attributable to a mitigation
activity can result in the issuance of carbon credits.
Section 5: Definitions - Core Carbon Principles - January 2024, Version 1.1 | 105
SSEECCTTIIOONN ffiIvVeE
FOREWORD SECTION ONE SECTION two SECTION three SECTION four SSEECCTTIIOONN ffiIvVeE SECTION six JANUARY 2024 - VERSION 1.1
CWG
A multi-stakeholder working group that operates pursuant to terms of reference that will be made
public on the ICVCM website. The CWG will be tasked to review different categories of carbon
credits, including their underlying methodologies, based on, inter alia, publicly available academic
literature, information from ratings agencies and ratings organisations, and other public
information. The CWG will review Categories of carbon credits at the highest possible level of
aggregation across the VCM and will not review individual mitigation activities or carbon credits.
DECISION
Per the Assessment Procedure, a decision of the Governing Board of the ICVCM that includes
supporting rationale.
DOUBLE CLAIMING
A type of double counting in which the same GHG emission reduction or removal is claimed by two
different entities towards achieving mitigation targets or goals: once by a country, jurisdiction
or other entity that reports lower GHG emissions or higher GHG removals for the purpose of
demonstrating achievement of a mitigation target or goal, and once by the entity retiring the
carbon credit for the purpose of making a GHG emission offsetting claim.
DOUBLE COUNTING
A situation in which a single GHG emission reduction or removal is counted more than once
towards achieving mitigation targets or goals. Double counting can occur through double
issuance, double use, and double claiming.
DOUBLE ISSUANCE
A type of double counting in which more than one carbon credit is issued for the same emission
reduction or removal. Double issuance leads to double counting if more than one of these carbon
credits is claimed towards achieving mitigation targets or goals.
DOUBLE USE
A type of double counting in which a single carbon credit is claimed twice towards achieving
mitigation targets or goals.
EVALUATION REPORT
The document prepared by the Integrity Council containing, at a minimum, an assessment
of whether the Category satisfies the relevant criteria and requirements set out in the CCPs
and the Assessment Framework, including remedial actions agreed by the relevant carbon-
crediting program, if any, and which may, but is not required to, include policy considerations
and recommendations. It may also include additional information provided by the CCP-Eligible
program, if any.
GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTION
A net reduction in anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions by sources.
GHG EMISSIONS REMOVAL
A net enhancement of anthropogenic removals by sinks.
GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG)
Greenhouse gases are those gaseous constituents of the atmosphere, both natural and
anthropogenic, that absorb and emit radiation at specific wavelengths within the spectrum of
thermal infrared radiation emitted by the Earth’s surface, the atmosphere itself, and by clouds.
This property causes the greenhouse effect.
Section 5: Definitions - Core Carbon Principles - January 2024, Version 1.1 | 106
SSEECCTTIIOONN ffiIvVeE
FOREWORD SECTION ONE SECTION two SECTION three SECTION four SSEECCTTIIOONN ffiIvVeE SECTION six JANUARY 2024 - VERSION 1.1
INDEPENDENT REVIEW
An Independent Review is intended as a final arbitration process, as further set out in the Terms
and Conditions for assessment.
JURISDICTION
The administrative unit such as a nation, state, province, region, department or district, or an
ecoregion or other defined area, specified in the jurisdictional program description.
JURISDICTIONAL REDD+ PROGRAM
A type of mitigation activity which is implemented by a Jurisdictional REDD+ Program Proponent
and for which emission reductions and removals are quantified at the scale of a national
or sub-national jurisdiction (the REDD+ Jurisdiction). Such programs may include multiple
mitigation actions in the forestry sector, including the sustainable management of forests and
the conservation and enhancement of forest carbon stocks. They may include multiple actors,
including governmental authorities and/or non-state actors.
JURISDICTIONAL REDD+ PROGRAM PROPONENT
A form of mitigation activity proponent that seeks the registration of a Jurisdictional REDD+
Program with a carbon-crediting program. This is a public entity or authority. See also MITIGATION
ACTIVITY PROPONENT.
LEAKAGE: ACTIVITY-SHIFTING
A type of leakage where the mitigation activity causes emissions to shift location. Mitigation
activities can shift emissions to locations not targeted, or emissions not monitored, by the
activity. An example is the displacement of agricultural activities from land that is afforested.
LEAKAGE: ECOLOGICAL
A type of leakage where a mitigation activity affects emissions indirectly in areas that are
hydrologically connected. An example is carbon dioxide emissions from soils in a wetland if the
water level is lowered due to the implementation of the mitigation activity.
LEAKAGE: MARKET
A type of leakage where mitigation activities have an impact on the supply or demand of an
emissions-intensive product or service, thereby increasing or decreasing emissions elsewhere.
For example, forest management or conservation activities may reduce timber harvests within
an intervention area, leading to increased harvesting in other areas to meet demand for wood
products.
LEAKAGE: UPSTREAM/DOWNSTREAM EMISSIONS
A type of leakage where emissions occur upstream or downstream of a mitigation activity and are
impacted by the mitigation activity. An example is the emissions associated with the production
of a fuel or feedstock used under the mitigation activity (e.g., methane emissions from natural
gas production).
MITIGATION ACTIVITY
An activity that reduces anthropogenic emissions of a GHG or enhances removals by sinks relative
to GHG emissions or removals in the activity’s baseline scenario and seeks registration and
issuance of carbon credits under a carbon-crediting program. The term refers to activities that
may be implemented at different scales, including projects, programmatic approaches, policies,
jurisdictional REDD+ programs, and other interventions. They may also be implemented at one or
more sites.
Section 5: Definitions - Core Carbon Principles - January 2024, Version 1.1 | 107
SSEECCTTIIOONN ffiIvVeE
FOREWORD SECTION ONE SECTION two SECTION three SECTION four SSEECCTTIIOONN ffiIvVeE SECTION six JANUARY 2024 - VERSION 1.1
MITIGATION ACTIVITY PROPONENT
The legal entity requesting the registration of a mitigation activity and issuance of carbon credits
under a carbon-crediting program. The mitigation activity proponent may be a public or private
entity. See also JURISDICTIONAL REDD+ PROGRAM PROPONENT
MITIGATION ACTIVITY WITHIN A JURISDICTIONAL REDD+ PROGRAM (PROJECT-BASED)
Refers to a project-based mitigation activity aimed at reducing emissions and/or enhancing
removals (e.g., reduced emissions for deforestation and forest degradation, enhancement or
conservation of forest carbon stocks, sustainable management of forests) that is located within
a jurisdiction covered by a registered Jurisdictional REDD+ Program and for which the accounting
boundaries overlap with the Jurisdictional REDD+ Program.
MULTI-STAKEHOLDER WORKING GROUPS (MSWG)
Multi-Stakeholder Working Groups (MSWGs) that operate pursuant to terms of reference that
will be made public on the ICVCM website. The MSWGs will be tasked to assess relevant criteria
and requirements of specific Categories, including their underlying methodologies based on,
inter alia, public classifications of Categories, publicly available academic literature, information
from ratings agencies, carbon-crediting program-specific information, including information
submitted as part of its Application, and other public information relating to Categories.
NEW MITIGATION ACTIONS OR ENHANCED IMPLEMENTATION OF ONGOING MITIGATION
ACTIONS
Refers to new or enhanced implementation action taken by a Jurisdiction that is explicitly
designed and reasonably expected to address key drivers of deforestation and degradation in
order to reduce emissions (and where applicable to the relevant Jurisdictional REDD+ Program,
enhance removals) and may include, inter alia, policies, laws, technical assistance programs,
enforcement measures, regulations, legal rights frameworks and/or incentive mechanisms. See
Criterion 8.9 of the Assessment Framework.
PROGRAM DOCUMENTS
The documents adopted by carbon-crediting program that specify requirements, procedures
and administrative and operational aspects of the carbon-crediting program. These documents
include, but are not limited to, general carbon-crediting program standards, quantification
methodologies, procedures, provisions, manuals, guidance and forms.
PROGRAM-LEVEL ASSESSMENT
An assessment by the Integrity Council of whether an applicant carbon-crediting program
satisfies the relevant principles in the CCPs using the Program-level criteria and requirements in
Part I of the Assessment Framework.
REMOVAL
Removal refers to the anthropogenic removal of carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere and
durable storage of the carbon in terrestrial or geological reservoirs or products.
RETIREMENT
The permanent removal of a carbon credit in a registry for the purpose of claiming the associated
emission reductions or removals towards compliance requirements or voluntary goals. Only one
single use should be associated with each retirement and the use should be clearly specified.
Section 5: Definitions - Core Carbon Principles - January 2024, Version 1.1 | 108
SSEECCTTIIOONN ffiIvVeE
FOREWORD SECTION ONE SECTION two SECTION three SECTION four SSEECCTTIIOONN ffiIvVeE SECTION six JANUARY 2024 - VERSION 1.1
START DATE
The calendar date on which the mitigation activity proponent committed to implementing the
mitigation activity (e.g., the date when contracts for the purchase or installation of equipment
required for the mitigation activity were executed or the date when the first expenditures are
incurred). In the case where a mitigation activity does not involve expenditure, it refers to the
date when the first physical actions were taken to implement the mitigation activity (e.g., the
discontinuation of the cultivation of land so that natural revegetation or succession may occur).
SUSPENSION DECISION
A Suspension Decision is a Decision by the Governing Board that, as a minimum, contains
the grounds for the suspension, sufficient information for the carbon-crediting program to
understand how the Integrity Council came to the view that suspension was necessary and
proportionate, and the conditions to be satisfied by the carbon-crediting program for the program
or Categories to be reinstated.
TERMINATION DECISION
A Termination Decision is a Decision by the Governing Board that, as a minimum, contains the
grounds for the termination, and sufficient information for the carbon-crediting program to
understand how the Integrity Council came to the view that termination was necessary and
proportionate.
VALIDATION
The process of independent, third-party evaluation of a mitigation activity requesting registration
under a carbon-crediting program by an accredited Validation and Verification Body (VVB) against
the program provisions of the applicable carbon-crediting program.
VALIDATION AND VERIFICATION BODY (VVB)
An independent third-party entity that is accredited for performing validation and/or verification
audits. Verification and validation bodies are often also referred to as auditors.
VERIFICATION
The process of periodic independent, third-party ex-post evaluation by a VVB of requests by a
registered mitigation activity to issue carbon credits against the program provisions of the
applicable carbon-crediting program.
VINTAGE
The calendar year in which the emission reduction or removal associated with a carbon credit
took place. Because the verification process is conducted after the emission reductions or
removals have occurred, carbon-crediting programs may issue carbon credits after the vintage
year.
WORKING DAY
A day on which banks are open for normal business in London, United Kingdom.
Section 5: Definitions - Core Carbon Principles - January 2024, Version 1.1 | 109
SSEECCTTIIOONN ffiIvVeE