VCS Methodology
VM0048
REDUCING EMISSIONS FROM
DEFORESTATION AND FOREST
DEGRADATION
Version 1.0
27 November 2023
Sectoral Scope 14
VM0048, v1.0
Verra developed version 1.0 of this methodology with support from Tim Pearson (Green Collar), Kevin R.
Brown (Wildlife Conservation Society), Simon Koenig (Climate Focus), Till Neeff, Sarah M. Walker (Wildlife
Conservation Society), Lucio Pedroni (Carbon Decisions International). Manuel Estrada made significant
contributions.
VM0048, v1.0
CONTENTS
1 SOURCES ............................................................................................................... 1
2 SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF THE METHODOLOGY .................................................... 2
3 DEFINITIONS .......................................................................................................... 4
3.1 Definitions .............................................................................................................................. 4
3.2 Acronyms ................................................................................................................................ 4
4 APPLICABILITY CONDITIONS ................................................................................... 5
5 PROJECT BOUNDARY .............................................................................................. 5
5.1 Geographic Boundaries .......................................................................................................... 5
5.2 Carbon Pools .......................................................................................................................... 5
5.3 Sources of GHG Emissions ...................................................................................................... 6
6 BASELINE SCENARIO .............................................................................................. 8
6.1 Determination of the Most Plausible Baseline Scenario .......................................................... 8
6.2 Projects Implemented in Jurisdictional REDD Programs or Where a Government has
Established a REDD Baseline................................................................................................ 10
6.3 Baseline Validity ................................................................................................................... 10
7 ADDITIONALITY .................................................................................................... 11
8 QUANTIFICATION OF GHG EMISSION REDUCTIONS ................................................. 11
8.1 Baseline Emissions ............................................................................................................... 11
8.2 Project Emissions ................................................................................................................. 12
8.3 Leakage ............................................................................................................................... 12
8.4 Net GHG Emission Reductions .............................................................................................. 13
9 MONITORING ....................................................................................................... 14
9.1 Data and Parameters Available at Validation ......................................................................... 14
9.2 Data and Parameters Monitored ........................................................................................... 14
9.3 Description of the Monitoring Plan ........................................................................................ 14
10 REFERENCES ....................................................................................................... 18
APPENDIX 1: TESTING SIGNIFICANCE OF GHG EMISSIONS ................................................ 19
DOCUMENT HISTORY ...................................................................................................... 21
VM0048, v1.0
1 SOURCES
This methodology is based on the VCS Jurisdictional and Nested REDD+ (JNR) Framework v4.0
and the following methodologies:
• VM0006 Methodology for Carbon Accounting for Mosaic and Landscape-scale REDD
Projects, v2.2
• VM0007 REDD+ Methodology Framework (REDD+ MF), v1.6
• VM0009 Methodology for Avoided Ecosystem Conversion, v3.0
• VM0015 Methodology for Avoided Unplanned Deforestation, v1.1
• VM0037 Methodology for Implementation of REDD+ Activities in Landscapes Affected by
Mosaic Deforestation and Degradation, v1.0
This methodology uses the latest versions of the following modules and tools:
• Activity-type accounting modules:
o VMD0055 Estimation of Emissions Reductions from Avoiding Unplanned
Deforestation (AUDef)
o Other activity-type accounting modules covering planned deforestation and
unplanned degradation or other REDD activities not covered in AUDef (e.g., Avoiding
Planned Deforestation, APDef, and Avoiding Unplanned Forest Degradation, AUDeg)
• Tools:
o VCS AFOLU Non-Permanence Risk Tool
o VCS VT0001 Tool for the Demonstration and Assessment of Additionality in VCS
AFOLU Project Activities
o CDM Methodological Tool: Estimation of Direct N O Emission from Nitrogen
2
Fertilization (E-NA)
This methodology uses the estimation procedures described in the following modules for
estimating carbon stocks in relevant pools, leakage, direct emissions and monitoring:1
• VMD0001 Estimation of Carbon Stocks in Above- and Belowground Biomass in Live Tree
and Non-tree Pools (CP-AB)
1 Where these modules refer to external documents (e.g., IPCC guidelines) and such documents are updated, the
most recent version of the document must be used.
1
VM0048, v1.0
• VMD0002 Estimation of Carbon Stocks in the Dead Wood Pool (CP-D)
• VMD0003 Estimation of Carbon Stocks in the Litter Pool (CP-L)
• VMD0004 Estimation of Carbon Stocks in the Soil Organic Carbon Pool (CP-S)
• VMD0005 Estimation of Carbon Stocks in the Long-term Wood Products Pool (CP-W)
• VMD0011 Estimation of Emissions from Market-effects (LK-ME)
• VMD0013 Estimation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Biomass and Peat Burning (E–
BPB)
• VMD0014 Estimation of Emissions from Fossil Fuel Combustion (E-FFC)
• VMD0016 Methods for Stratification of the Project Area (X-STR)
2 SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF THE
METHODOLOGY
Additionality and Crediting Method
Additionality Project Method
Crediting Baseline Project Method
The modules and tools referenced in this document apply to project activities that reduce
emissions from unplanned deforestation (UDef). In future iterations, additional modules will be
added to address activities that reduce emissions from planned deforestation (PDef) and
unplanned forest degradation (UDeg). For avoiding planned forest degradation, see the improved
forest management category of methodologies.
Reference to this methodology and the modules used to construct the project-specific
methodology must be given in the project description. The project proponent must justify the
choice of modules in the project description.
Table 1 lists the modules and tools, indicating where the use of modules/tools is mandatory,
optional or not applicable. Appendix 1 of this methodology must be used to justify the omission of
carbon pools and emission sources.
2
Additionality and Crediting Method
Additionality | Project Method
Crediting Baseline | Project Method
VM0048, v1.0
Table 1: Determination of where module/tool use is mandatory (M), optional (O) or to be
determined (TBD) for all project activities covered by this methodology
Project Activities
Module/Tool
UDef PDef UDeg
AUDef M O O
APDef O M O
AUDeg O O M
AFOLU Non-Permanence
M TBD TBD
Risk Tool
E-NA (m)1 TBD TBD
CP-AB M TBD TBD
CP-D (m)2 TBD TBD
CP-L O TBD TBD
CP-S O TBD TBD
CP-W (m)3 TBD TBD
LK-ME (m)3 TBD TBD
E-BPB M TBD TBD
E-FFC O TBD TBD
X-STR M TBD TBD
TABLE NOTES
AUDef VMD0055 Estimation of Emissions from Avoiding Unplanned Deforestation
APDef VMD00XX Estimation of Emissions from Avoiding Planned Deforestation (under development)
AUDeg VMD00XX Estimation of Emissions from Avoiding Unplanned Forest Degradation (under
development)
M Fully mandatory for the given project activity (i.e., the indicated modules and tools must be
used)
O Fully optional for the given project activity (i.e., the indicated pools and sources may be included
or excluded as decided by the project, but where they are included in the baseline, they must
also be included in the project scenario)
(m)1 Mandatory for the given project activity where leakage prevention activities include increases in
the use of fertilizers
(m)2 Mandatory for the given project activity where this carbon pool is greater in the baseline (post-
deforestation/degradation) than project scenario and significant; otherwise may be
conservatively omitted
(m)3 Mandatory for the given project activity where the process of deforestation involves timber
harvesting, fuel wood collection and/or charcoal production for commercial markets
3
Module/Tool | Project Activities
UDef | PDef | UDeg
AUDef | M | O | O
APDef | O | M | O
AUDeg | O | O | M
AFOLU Non-Permanence | M | TBD | TBD
Risk Tool
E-NA | (m)1 | TBD | TBD
CP-AB | M | TBD | TBD
CP-D | (m)2 | TBD | TBD
CP-L | O | TBD | TBD
CP-S | O | TBD | TBD
CP-W | (m)3 | TBD | TBD
LK-ME | (m)3 | TBD | TBD
E-BPB | M | TBD | TBD
E-FFC | O | TBD | TBD
X-STR | M | TBD | TBD
VM0048, v1.0
3 DEFINITIONS
3.1 Definitions
In addition to the definitions set out in the VCS Program document Program Definitions and
additional definitions in specific modules, the following definitions apply to this methodology and
any of the modules used.
Activity data (AD)
Data on the magnitude of a human activity that results in emissions or removals taking place
during a given period of time
Baseline validity period
The period of time for which a baseline is considered valid, as set out in the VCS Standard
Forest
In addition to the definition set out in the VCS Program Definitions and the requirements of the
VCS Methodology Requirements, for this methodology, “forest” must include woody vegetation
with a canopy cover of between 10 and 30 percent, as used in the relevant country’s
international reporting to the UNFCCC, or as otherwise officially elected as an applicable
definition for use by climate change mitigation projects and programs. Where a country’s national
forest definition excludes specific land use/land management types and/or vegetative classes,
stratification should identify these areas to enable future inclusion/exclusion in nested
accounting.
Planned deforestation (PDef)
Deforestation on forest lands that are legally authorized and documented for conversion
Unplanned deforestation (UDef)
Deforestation of degraded to mature forests not legally authorized and documented for
conversion
For definitions of VCS AFOLU project categories, refer to the VCS Standard.
3.2 Acronyms
AD Activity data
GHG Greenhouse gas
JNR Jurisdictional and Nested REDD+
SOP Standard operating procedure(s)
UDef Unplanned deforestation
4
VM0048, v1.0
4 APPLICABILITY CONDITIONS
This methodology may only be used for eligible REDD projects and activities described in the VCS
Methodology Requirements. The applicability conditions for each activity type are listed in AUDef,
and will be listed in APDef and AUDeg.
5 PROJECT BOUNDARY
5.1 Geographic Boundaries
The spatial boundaries of the project area must be clearly defined to facilitate accurate
measuring, monitoring, accounting and verification of the project’s emissions reductions. The
project activity may encompass more than one discrete area of land. When describing physical
project boundaries, the following information must be provided for each discrete area:
1) Name of the project area (e.g., compartment number, allotment number, local name),
giving a unique ID for each discrete parcel of land;
2) Map(s) of the area (in digital format);
3) Geographic coordinates of each polygon vertex along with documentation of their
accuracy (from a geo-referenced digital map – data must be provided in the format
specified in the VCS Standard);
4) Total land area; and
5) Details of landholder and user rights.
The forested project area (within each discrete area of project activity) must be continuous
without arbitrary exclusions of forests in the same geography (e.g., without excluding forests next
to villages around which deforestation is likely to occur).
The boundary of the REDD activity must be clearly delineated and defined and include only land
qualifying as forest for a minimum of 10 years before the project start date.
Specific boundaries exist for specific activity types with REDD – details and requirements are
provided in the appropriate accounting modules (e.g., AUDef).
For projects where multiple AFOLU project activities are being implemented within the project
boundary, the discrete areas where each activity is implemented must be spatially delineated.
5.2 Carbon Pools
The carbon pools included in or excluded from the boundary of REDD project activities are shown
in Table 2.
5
VM0048, v1.0
The selection of carbon pools and the appropriate justification must be presented in the project
description.
Where REDD activities take place in wetlands, the project must account for expected emissions
from the soil organic carbon pool or changes in the soil organic carbon pool in the project
scenario unless deemed de minimis. The significance of pools must be determined by using the
procedure outlined in Appendix 1.
Table 2: Carbon pools included in or excluded from the REDD project boundary
Pool Included? Justification/Explanation
Aboveground tree Included Major carbon pool that will significantly decrease in
biomass the baseline scenario in the case of deforestation
or forest degradation
Belowground tree Included Major carbon pool that will significantly decrease in
biomass the baseline scenario in the case of deforestation
or forest degradation
Aboveground non-tree Included Must be included in the baseline (post-
biomass deforestation carbon stocks) but may be
conservatively excluded from forest carbon stocks
Belowground non-tree Optional Potential emissions are negligible.
biomass
Dead wood Optional Conservative to exclude
Litter Optional Conservative to exclude
Soil organic carbon Optional / Non-wetland soils: Conservative to exclude
Included
Wetland soils: Major carbon pool that may
significantly increase or decrease in both the
baseline and project scenarios. Appendix 1 of this
methodology must be used to determine
significance.
Harvested wood Optional May be excluded where timber harvest is negligible
products in the baseline case. Appendix 1 of this
methodology must be used to determine
significance.
5.3 Sources of GHG Emissions
The project must account for any significant increases in emissions of carbon dioxide (CO ),
2
nitrous oxide (N O) and methane (CH ), relative to the baseline, that are reasonably attributable
2 4
to the project activity.
6
Pool | Included? | Justification/Explanation
Aboveground tree
biomass | Aboveground tree | Included | Included | Major carbon pool that will significantly decrease in
biomass | the baseline scenario in the case of deforestation
or forest degradation
Belowground tree
biomass | Included | Major carbon pool that will significantly decrease in
the baseline scenario in the case of deforestation
or forest degradation
Aboveground non-tree
biomass | Included | Must be included in the baseline (post-
deforestation carbon stocks) but may be
conservatively excluded from forest carbon stocks
Belowground non-tree | Optional | Potential emissions are negligible. | Potential emissions are negligible.
biomass
Dead wood | Optional | Conservative to exclude
Litter | Optional | Conservative to exclude
Soil organic carbon | Soil organic carbon | Optional /
Included | Optional / | Non-wetland soils: Conservative to exclude
Included
Wetland soils: Major carbon pool that may
significantly increase or decrease in both the
baseline and project scenarios. Appendix 1 of this
methodology must be used to determine
significance.
Harvested wood
products | Optional | May be excluded where timber harvest is negligible
in the baseline case. Appendix 1 of this
methodology must be used to determine
significance.
Belowground tree
biomass
Aboveground non-tree
biomass
Harvested wood
products
VM0048, v1.0
The GHG emission sources included in or excluded from the boundary of the REDD project activity
are shown in Table 3. The selection of sources and the appropriate justification must be provided
in the project description.
Procedures specified in Appendix 1 of this methodology must be used to determine whether an
emissions source is significant. Where a source is included in estimating baseline emissions,2 it
must also be included in calculating project and leakage emissions.
Table 3: GHG sources included in or excluded from the REDD project boundary
Source Gas Included? Justification/Explanation
7
enilesaB
Burning of CO Included Major emissions source
2
woody
biomass CH Optional Non-CO gases emitted from woody biomass burning
4 2
– it is conservative to exclude.
N O Optional
2
Combustion CO Optional May be excluded where determined negligible
2
of fossil fuels
CH Excluded Potential emissions are negligible.
4
N O Excluded Potential emissions are negligible.
2
Use of CO Excluded Potential emissions are negligible.
2
fertilizers
CH Excluded Potential emissions are negligible.
4
N O Optional May be excluded where determined negligible
2
tcejorP
Burning of CO Included Major emissions source
2
woody
biomass CH Included Major emissions source
4
N O Included Major emissions source
2
Combustion CO Optional Emissions associated with the combustion of fossil
2
of fossil fuels fuels due to leakage prevention activities are always
considered insignificant.
Emissions associated with other activities (e.g.,
monitoring, patrolling) must be demonstrated as
negligible to be omitted.
CH Excluded Potential emissions are negligible.
4
N O Excluded Potential emissions are negligible.
2
2 For example, CH or N O emissions from agriculture resulting from deforestation or fire to clear forest
4 2
Source | Gas | Included? | Justification/Explanation
enilesaB | Burning of
woody
biomass | Burning of | CO
2 | Included | Major emissions source
woody
CH
4 | Optional | Non-CO gases emitted from woody biomass burning
2
– it is conservative to exclude. | Non-CO gases emitted from woody biomass burning
2
biomass
– it is conservative to exclude.
N O
2 | Optional
Combustion
of fossil fuels | CO
2 | Optional | May be excluded where determined negligible
CH
4 | Excluded | Potential emissions are negligible.
N O
2 | Excluded | Potential emissions are negligible.
Use of
fertilizers | CO
2 | Excluded | Potential emissions are negligible.
CH
4 | Excluded | Potential emissions are negligible.
N O
2 | Optional | May be excluded where determined negligible
tcejorP | Burning of
woody
biomass | CO
2 | Included | Major emissions source
CH
4 | Included | Major emissions source
N O
2 | Included | Major emissions source
Combustion
of fossil fuels | CO
2 | CO
2 | Optional | Optional | Emissions associated with the combustion of fossil
fuels due to leakage prevention activities are always
considered insignificant.
Emissions associated with other activities (e.g.,
monitoring, patrolling) must be demonstrated as
negligible to be omitted.
CH
4 | Excluded | Potential emissions are negligible.
N O
2 | Excluded | Potential emissions are negligible.
Combustion
of fossil fuels
Use of
fertilizers
Burning of
woody
biomass
Combustion
of fossil fuels
VM0048, v1.0
Source Gas Included? Justification/Explanation
Use of CO Excluded Potential emissions are negligible.
2
fertilizers
CH Excluded Potential emissions are negligible.
4
N O Optional Must be included where fertilizer use increases due
2
to the project (e.g., as a leakage avoidance
mechanism). Otherwise, it may be excluded if it is
also excluded from the baseline.
6 BASELINE SCENARIO
6.1 Determination of the Most Plausible Baseline Scenario
Determination of the most plausible baseline scenario builds on the outcome of the additionality
analysis (Section 7) and must be consistent with the description of the conditions prior to the
project start date. VT0001 must be used to assess the project additionality. The stepwise
approach below must be followed in addition to VT0001 to determine the most plausible baseline
scenario.
Step 1: Reuse the plausible alternative land use scenarios to the REDD project activity that have
been listed as an outcome of Sub-step 1b of the additionality tool VT0001.
Unless it has been demonstrated that any of these land use scenarios are not credible or do not
comply with all mandatory applicable legislation and regulations as required by VT0001 Sub-step
1b, the list of plausible alternative land use scenarios must include at least:
1) Continuation of the pre-project land use;
2) Project activity performed on the land within the project boundary without being
registered as a VCS REDD project; and
3) Activities similar to the proposed project activity on at least part of the land within the
project boundary of the proposed REDD project.
8
Source | Gas | Included? | Justification/Explanation
Use of
fertilizers | Use of | CO
2 | Excluded | Potential emissions are negligible.
fertilizers
CH
4 | Excluded | Potential emissions are negligible.
N O
2 | N O
2 | Optional | Optional | Must be included where fertilizer use increases due
to the project (e.g., as a leakage avoidance
mechanism). Otherwise, it may be excluded if it is
also excluded from the baseline.
VM0048, v1.0
Step 2a: Where the VT0001 barrier analysis is used to demonstrate additionality, apply the
decision tree in Figure 1 to the list of all alternative land use scenarios from Step 1 that are not
prevented by any barrier.
Figure 1. Barrier analysis decision tree
Step 2b: Where the VT0001 investment analysis is used to demonstrate additionality, and if at
least one land use scenario generates financial benefits other than carbon revenues, select the
baseline scenario as below:
4) Where VT0001 Option I is used, the baseline scenario is the land use scenario with the
lowest costs over the crediting period). Option I may only be applied if the alternative
scenarios do not include revenues.
5) Where VT0001 Option II is used, the baseline scenario is the most economically or
financially attractive land use scenario (i.e., the scenario with the most favorable
financial indicator such as internal rate of return).
6) Where VT0001 Option III is used and none of the alternative land use scenarios have a
financial indicator that meets the benchmark, the baseline scenario is the continuation
of the pre-project land use. Where Option III is used and at least one of the land use
scenarios has a financial indicator that meets the benchmark, the baseline scenario is
the scenario that has the most favorable financial indicator (e.g., internal rate of return,
net present value or cost-benefit ratio).
9
VM0048, v1.0
Step 3: Where barrier analysis is used to demonstrate additionality but does not allow
determination of the baseline scenario, implement one of the following:
1) An investment analysis following VT0001 Option II (regardless of whether it has been
used to demonstrate additionality). Select the most plausible baseline as specified in
Step 2b above; or
2) Through qualitative analysis, estimate the baseline GHG emissions for each alternative
land use scenario that is not prevented by any barrier. The baseline scenario is the land
use scenario that allows for the lowest baseline GHG emissions. Estimates must be
based on publicly available default factors and standards, such as the IPCC 2006
Guidelines for National GHG Inventories and its 2019 Refinements or the IPCC 2003
Good Practice Guidelines for LULUCF. All other data used must be publicly available
and must come from recognized, credible sources, such as peer-reviewed literature.
Quantification of GHG emissions under the selected baseline scenario must follow the applicable
and relevant activity-type module(s).
6.2 Projects Implemented in Jurisdictional REDD Programs or Where a
Government has Established a REDD Baseline
Projects that are implemented within a registered JNR program are eligible to use this
methodology for activities included under that program. However, projects must be nested
according to the requirements set out in the JNR Scenario 1 Requirements or JNR Scenario 2
Requirements, as appropriate.
REDD projects that are implemented within a non-JNR REDD jurisdictional program should also
follow the relevant jurisdictional program’s requirements (e.g., with respect to baseline, as set out
in AUDef), but they must be registered and monitored under VCS following this methodology.
Further clarification is set out in the relevant module(s).
Where the baseline estimated using the activity data allocated to the project through this
methodology is higher than the local government’s baseline, a project proponent may elect to
limit the amount of VCUs it issues to the amount that would be issued based on this lower
baseline. Where required by local regulations, such limitation is mandatory.
6.3 Baseline Validity
Baseline projections beyond the baseline validity period are not required for REDD project
activities.
The project baseline must be reassessed per the VCS Standard and the requirement in the
relevant module. The date of the next scheduled baseline reassessment must be specified in the
project description.
10
VM0048, v1.0
7 ADDITIONALITY
Additionality of the project activities must be demonstrated using the most recent version of
VT0001 Tool for the Demonstration and Assessment of Additionality in VCS AFOLU Project
Activities and by following the additional guidance on investment analysis of the latest version of
the VCS Methodology Requirements.
Project proponents must also demonstrate regulatory surplus in accordance with both the
requirements on regulatory surplus set out in the latest version of the VCS Standard and the rules
and methods to assess and demonstrate regulatory surplus described in the latest version of the
VCS Methodology Requirements.
In UNFCCC non-Annex I countries, where regulatory surplus is justified by the lack of systematic
law enforcement it must be demonstrated that enforcement of the law is out of the control of the
project proponent and other entities involved in the project. Such lack of control may be
demonstrated by the barriers identified in Step 3 of VT0001.
8 QUANTIFICATION OF GHG EMISSION
REDUCTIONS
8.1 Baseline Emissions
8.1.1 General Procedures
The same procedure for quantifying emissions and carbon stocks must be followed ex ante and
ex post. For parameters monitored after project initiation, guidance is given in the parameter
tables of the relevant modules for the values that must be used in ex ante calculations.
The baseline of the project activity is estimated ex ante. Ex ante baseline estimations are used in
the ex ante and ex post estimation of net carbon stock changes and greenhouse gas emission
reductions.
The relevant activity modules (e.g., AUDef) provide methods for estimating net baseline carbon
stock changes and greenhouse gas emissions.
8.1.2 Baseline Reassessment and Transition to VM0048
Where projects have verified using VM0009 prior to their transition to VM0048, project
proponents must follow the provisions set out in VM0009 to revise the baseline emissions model
(see Section 6.20 of VM0009, v3.0 or equivalent section in the most recent version of the
methodology).
11
VM0048, v1.0
Where, after baseline reevaluation, the revised baseline emissions model predicts fewer GHG
emission reductions than VCUs issued under the previous model, the project must compensate
for this difference by one of the following methods:
1) Cancelation of VCUs from the project in the project proponent’s Verra Registry account
that have not been used for offsetting purposes (“active VCUs”), or of already issued
active VCUs where the project proponent gains the consent of the current owner,
and/or
2) Replacement of the emission reductions through immediate cancelation from
subsequent issuances of VCUs to the project. The deduction may be distributed over
more than one verification period provided a deduction plan has been submitted to and
approved by Verra.
Projects must describe the applicable calculations as a project description deviation in the first
monitoring report submitted after transitioning to VM0048. The validation/verification body must
assess the calculations and ensure that a deduction plan, where relevant, has been approved by
Verra.
8.2 Project Emissions
The same procedure for project emissions must be followed ex ante and ex post. For parameters
monitored after project initiation, guidance is given in the parameter tables of the relevant
modules for ex ante calculations.
Methods for estimating net carbon stock changes and GHG emissions in the project scenario are
provided in the relevant activity modules (e.g., AUDef).
8.3 Leakage
Emissions from different leakage sources must be estimated unless deemed de minimis:
1) Activity-shifting leakage;
2) Market-effect leakage; and
3) Emissions from leakage prevention activities.
The relevant activity modules specify the leakage sources that must be estimated. The
significance of leakage and carbon pools must be determined using Appendix 1 of this
methodology.
The relevant activity modules (e.g., AUDef) provide methods for estimating net carbon stock
changes and GHG emissions due to activity-shifting leakage.
Leakage due to market effects must be considered using LK-ME. Market effects must be
considered where the project leads to decreased timber, fuelwood or charcoal production.
12
VM0048, v1.0
Where leakage prevention activities result in significant increases in emissions from carbon stock
changes, biomass burning and/or increased fertilizer usage,3 any increase in GHG emissions
associated with these activities must be accounted for following the relevant activity modules
(e.g., AUDef), unless deemed de minimis.
Leakage prevention activities may lead to an increase in the combustion of fossil fuels. However,
any increase in emissions because of the increased combustion of fossil fuels is considered de
minimis and does not need to be quantified or reported.
Where leakage prevention leads to a significant increase in fertilizer use, module E-NA must be
used.
Leakage prevention must not include the flooding of agricultural lands (e.g., for new rice paddies)
nor the creation of livestock feedlots or manure lagoons. Leakage prevention must not include
the drainage of peatland.
The list of leakage sources with appropriate justification must be presented in the project
description.
8.4 Net GHG Emission Reductions
The project proponent must present conservative ex ante estimations of the project activity's
total net GHG emissions reductions.
Refer to the relevant accounting modules and the parameter tables within these modules for
instructions on ex ante estimations of specific parameters.
The potential number of Verified Carbon Units (VCUs) for the monitoring period t is estimated as
follows:
= + + (1)
끫뢒끫뢒끫뢒끫룂 끫뢒끫뢒끫뢒끫롨끫롨끫롨끫롨끫롨 끫뢒끫뢒끫뢒끫롨끫롨끫롨끫롨끫롨 끫뢒끫뢒끫뢒끫롨끫롨끫롨끫롨끫롨
Where:
$$
VCU t = Number of potential Verified Carbon Units at year t = t 2 - t 1 (VCU)
VCU = Number of potential Verified Carbon Units from unplanned deforestation at year
$$
AUDef
$$
t = t 2 - t 1 (VCU)
VCU = Number of potential Verified Carbon Units from planned deforestation at year
$$
APDef
$t = t 2 - t 1 (VCU)$
3 Potentially as part of tree planting, aquacultural intensification, agricultural intensification, fertilization, fodder
production, other measures to enhance cropland and/or grazing land areas, leakage management zones or a
combination of these
13
VM0048, v1.0
$VCU = Number of potential Verified Carbon Units from unplanned forest degradation at$
AUDeg
$year t = t 2 - t 1 (VCU)$
9 MONITORING
9.1 Data and Parameters Available at Validation
Relevant parameters are detailed within accounting and other source modules.
9.2 Data and Parameters Monitored
Relevant parameters are detailed within accounting and other source modules.
9.3 Description of the Monitoring Plan
9.3.1 Development of Monitoring Plan
General
The monitoring plan must address the following tasks:
• Monitoring of project implementation;
• Monitoring of actual carbon stock changes and greenhouse gas emissions;
• Monitoring of leakage carbon stock changes and greenhouse gas emissions; and
• Estimation of ex post net carbon stock changes and greenhouse gas emissions.
For each of these tasks, the monitoring plan must include the following information:
• Technical description of the monitoring task;
• Data to be collected (data and parameters to be collected must be listed in the project
description);
• Overview of data collection procedures;
• Quality control and quality assurance procedures;
• Data archiving; and
• Organization and responsibilities of the parties involved in all of the above.
Uncertainty and Quality Management
As far as is practical, uncertainties related to the quantification of GHG emission reductions
should be reduced.
Uncertainties arising from input parameters would result in uncertainties in estimating baseline
and project net GHG emissions – especially where global default factors are used. The project
14
VM0048, v1.0
must identify critical parameters that would significantly influence the accuracy of estimates.
Local values specific to the project circumstances must be obtained for these key parameters
where possible. These values should be based on:
• Cited data from well-referenced peer-reviewed literature or other well-established
published sources;
• National inventory data or default factors from IPCC literature that have, where possible
and necessary, been checked for consistency against available local data specific to the
project circumstances; or
• Expert opinion, in the absence of the above sources of information. Experts will often
provide a range of data values and a proposed value for the data. The rationale for
selecting a particular data value must be demonstrated.
In choosing key parameters or making important assumptions based on information not specific
to the project circumstances, such as using default factors, the project proponent must select
values that will lead to an accurate estimation of net GHG emission reductions, taking into
account uncertainties.
Where uncertainty is significant,4 the project proponent must choose data that indisputably tends
to under-estimating, rather than over-estimating, net GHG project benefits.
To ensure that GHG fluxes are estimated in a way that is accurate, verifiable, transparent and
consistent across measurement periods, the project proponent must establish and document
clear standard operating procedures and procedures for ensuring data quality. At a minimum,
these procedures must include:
• Comprehensive documentation of all field measurements taken in the project area. This
documentation must be detailed enough to allow replication of sampling in the event of
staff turnover between monitoring periods;
• Training procedures for all people involved in field measurement or data analysis. The
scope and date of all training must be documented;
• A protocol for assessing the accuracy of plot measurements using a check cruise and a
plan for correcting the inventory where errors are discovered;
• Protocols for assessing data for outliers, transcription errors and consistency across
measurement periods; and
• Safe archiving of data sheets for the lifetime of the project. Data stored in electronic
formats must be backed up.
4 In line with the VCS Methodology Requirements, uncertainty is deemed significant where it is expected to exceed 10
percent of the estimate.
15
VM0048, v1.0
Expert judgment
The use of expert judgment for selecting and interpreting methods, selecting input data to fill
gaps in available data and selecting data from a range of possible values or uncertainty ranges
are all well defined in the IPCC 2006 Guidelines for National GHG Inventories and its 2019
Refinement. The project proponent must use the guidance provided in Volume 1 Chapter 2
Approaches to Data Collection (in particular, Section 2.2 and Annex 2A.1) of the IPCC 2019
Refinement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National GHG Inventories.
Monitoring of Project Implementation
Information must be provided and recorded to establish the following:
1) The geographic position of the project boundary is recorded for all areas of land. The
geographic coordinates of the project boundary (and any stratification or buffer zones
inside the boundary) are established, recorded and archived. This may be achieved by
field survey (e.g., GPS) or geo-referenced spatial data (e.g., maps, GIS datasets,
orthorectified aerial photography or geo-referenced remote sensing images).
The above also applies to strata recording, including strata resulting from peatland fires
in the project scenario.
2) Commonly accepted principles of land use inventory and management are implemented.
Standard operating procedures (SOPs) and quality control/quality assurance procedures
for inventories, including field data collection and management, must be applied. Use or
adaptation of SOPs already applied in national land use monitoring or available from
published handbooks or the latest IPCC guidance documents is recommended.
The project plan and a record of the plan as implemented during the project must be
available for validation or verification, as appropriate.
3) The monitoring plan must use the methods in the relevant module(s) (i.e., AUDef, APDef,
and/or AUDeg) to monitor changes in forest cover and carbon stock changes. All relevant
parameters from the modules must be included in the monitoring plan.
9.3.2 Monitoring
Ex post monitoring must accomplish two key tasks:
1) Monitoring according to the monitoring plan; and
2) Revising the baseline for future project crediting periods.
16
VM0048, v1.0
TASK 1: Monitoring According to the Monitoring Plan
Monitoring of Key Baseline Variables
Information required to periodically reassess the project baseline must be collected during the
entire project crediting period. Key variables to be measured are:
• Changes in forest cover as specified in the relevant accounting modules (e.g., AUDef)
• Spatial variable datasets used in modeling, as specified in relevant accounting modules
(e.g., AUDef). As a minimum, the variables used in the first baseline assessment must be
monitored during any reassessments.
• Carbon stock data, where required, as specified in the relevant accounting module
Monitoring of Leakage
All significant sources of leakage identified are subject to monitoring following the procedures
outlined in the monitoring plan. Such procedures must be consistent with the applicable leakage
modules. The monitoring plan must include all relevant parameters in the leakage modules.
Reporting of Parameters in Each Monitoring Report
The following values must be reported using the unit in parentheses, each with an estimate of
uncertainty, representing sampling error as a two-sided 90 percent confidence interval:
1) For projects using AUDef, the allocated annual deforestation area by stratum (hectares
for each year of the monitoring period);
2) Aggregate annual deforestation area for the verification period in the project area
(hectares per year);
3) Aggregate annual deforestation area for the verification period in the leakage belt
(hectares per year);
4) Aggregate annual emissions from deforestation for the verification period and project
area (tonnes CO e per year);
2
5) Aggregate annual emissions from deforestation for the verification period and leakage
belt (tonnes CO e per year); and
2
6) Average emission factor for deforestation for the verification period and over the project
area (tonnes CO e per hectare).
2
Additional values may be added as additional modules are added under this VM0048.
TASK 2: Revising the Baseline for Future Project Crediting Periods
The methodological procedure to update the baseline must be the same as in the first baseline
estimation.
17
VM0048, v1.0
10 REFERENCES
IPCC (2003). Good Practice Guidance for Land Use, Land Use Change and Forestry. Institute for
Global Environmental Strategies (IGES).
IPCC (2006). 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories. Institute for Global
Environmental Strategies (IGES).
IPCC (2019). 2019 Refinement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines on National Greenhouse Gas
Inventories. Institute for Global Environmental Strategies (IGES).
Additional references may be found in the modules referenced throughout this methodology.
18
VM0048, v1.0
APPENDIX 1: TESTING SIGNIFICANCE OF
GHG EMISSIONS
The following stepwise procedure must be used to test the significance of GHG emissions. It is an
adaptation of the CDM Tool for testing the significance of GHG emissions in A/R CDM project activities,
v01. The procedure may be used to justify the omission of pools and GHG sources within the project
boundaries, as well as to justify the omission of GHG emissions resulting from leakage mitigation
measures.
The significance of GHG emissions by source and carbon stock changes by pool must be at minimum
tested ex ante to justify the project boundaries and at baseline reassessment. The significance of leakage
GHG emissions must be tested ex ante for the entire baseline validity period and ex post for a specific
monitoring period.
1) Define the period over which the significance will be tested (i.e., either a baseline validity
period for ex ante estimates or a specific monitoring period or annually for ex post
estimates).
2) Identify and estimate the following where relevant:
a) GHG emissions by source (per each source) to be included and tested for the specified
period. Estimation must be based on site/project-specific data, scientific peer-reviewed
literature and/or the most recent default emission factors provided by IPCC.
b) GHG emissions attributable to net carbon stock changes by pool (per each pool to be
included and tested). The estimation of net carbon stock changes must follow the
methodology and be consistent with the baseline scenario and project activities.
Estimation must be based on site/project-specific data, scientific peer-reviewed
literature and/or the most recent default emission factors provided by IPCC.
c) Leakage GHG emissions by source attributable to the project leakage mitigation
measures (i.e., net carbon stock changes in above- and belowground tree biomass,
emissions associated with biomass burning and nitrogen application) that the planned
leakage mitigation measures are expected to cause during the fixed baseline period.
Estimation must follow sound procedures consistent with calculation approaches in the
applicable activity-type module(s). Estimation must be based on site/project-specific
data, scientific peer-reviewed literature and/or the most recent default emission
factors provided by IPCC.
3) Where needed, convert the GHG emissions to CO e using 100-year global warming
2
potential (GWP) values from the latest version of the VCS Standard.
4) Calculate the relative contributions of the GHG emissions listed in Step 2a–c above
according to the following equation:
19
VM0048, v1.0
= (2)
끫롰끫뢬
끫뢊끫뢒끫롰끫뢬 끫롸
$\sum끫뢬=1끫롰끫뢬$
Where:
= Relative contribution of each source i to the sum of project and leakage GHG
emissions
끫뢊끫뢒끫롰끫뢬
= GHG project and leakage emissions for source i as estimated under Step 2a–c
above
끫롰끫뢬
$$
i = Index for individual sources of project and leakage GHG emissions due to
leakage mitigation measures (I = total number of sources considered in Step 1)
$$
5) Rank the GHG emissions in descending order of their relative contributions RC and order
Ei
them according to their ranks (i.e., the lowest emission must get the highest rank and must
occupy the last position in the ordered sequence of leakage emissions).
6) Start calculating the cumulative sum of the relative contributions RC (ordered according to
Ei
Step 5), beginning with the lowest rank. Cease the summation when the cumulative sum
reaches the lowest value not less than the threshold of 0.95.
The GHG and project leakage emissions by source excluded from the cumulative sum in Step 6 are
considered insignificant where their total is lower than five percent of net anthropogenic GHG ERRs in the
project area. Otherwise, the procedure described in Step 6 must be continued beyond the threshold of
0.95 until this condition is met. Even where they are insignificant, project proponents may include any
qualifying sources and sinks in the project case.
For the purposes of testing GHG emissions significance, the net GHG ERRs must be calculated before
discounting the cumulative GHG emissions resulting from leakage (i.e., before discounting ΔC
LK-UDef,t
).
Significance test calculations must be summarized in the project description or monitoring reports and
detailed in a calculation spreadsheet to be shared with the validation/verification body and Verra.
20
VM0048, v1.0
DOCUMENT HISTORY
Version Comment
v1.0 27 Nov 2023 Initial version
21
Version | Comment
v1.0 | 27 Nov 2023 | Initial version